With all of that, I'm pretty happy regarding the auth screen,
so let's actually login now and have a look at what we can do inside of the application because there
are also things we can animate,
for example these images.
It's pretty ugly how they're popping in when this gets loaded and Flutter has us covered there as well,
we can render that in a more beautiful way. We can use a placeholder image to then fade in the real image
once it's loaded and show the placeholder image instead
and for that, let's go to the assets folder and add an images folder there and attached to this video, you
find an image, product-placeholder.png which you can drag and drop in there. Once it's in there,
you need to go to your pubspec.yaml file and register this widget there.
So there, you should find that assets area where you have some example code already and there, point at
your assets/images folder or whatever you named it
and then add product-placeholder.png which is my file name. This make sure that this is
available inside of the application
and now we can start using that. Now for that, let's go to the products overview
screen here and there, we are rendering our different items here in the products grid.
Now in the products grid of course, if we go there, we're using the products item and in the products
item widget, that's in the end where the image gets displayed, here with image network.
Now you need to wrap that with fade in image. Fade in image is a widget built into Flutter which does
just what it suggests, what the name suggests, it fades in your image once it's there and it allows you
to define a placeholder. Placeholder takes an image provider,
so not an image widget like image network but a provider, things like network image or in our case, asset
image
and there you have to pass in a string where you point at the image you want to use. So in our case,
that's of course assets/images/product-placeholder.png.
Now fade in image of course also takes an image argument which is the image you actually want to render
once it's done loading that image. This also takes an image provider and here, I'll use the network
image provider
and of course point at product imageUrl and with that, Flutter will automate if you wait until this
has been downloaded before it then shows it and it will nicely animate it in automatically, so it has a
fade in animation baked in. With that, we can remove that image network widget here and the last thing
I want to set up on the fade in image is the fit property which I set to BoxFit.cover so that
this looks in the exact same way the network image looked before. If you save that and you reload this
shop page, the images are now there instantly because they were loaded before. Let's to a full restart
of the application so that nothing is cached and now you see, the placeholder images and then the images
are smoothly faded in once they're there and this is of course a nicer user experience because we don't
have these things pop in,
instead we have a nice animation.